<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kcoloredit "<application>KColorEdit</application>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kcoloredit;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdegraphics">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"> <!-- Change language only here --> 
]
>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title> The &kcoloredit; Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Artur</firstname>
<surname>Rataj</surname>
<affiliation>
<address>&Artur.Rataj.mail;</address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>&Artur.Rataj;</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2005-12-10</date>
<releaseinfo>3.5.0</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>&kcoloredit; is a palette files editor. It can be used for editing
color palettes and for color choosing and naming.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>graphics</keyword>
<keyword>palette</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&kcoloredit; is a palette files editor. It can be used for
editing color palettes and for color choosing and naming.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="file-operations">
<title>File operations</title>

<sect1 id="file">
<title>About palette files</title>

<para>
The palette files installed by &kde; can be either system-wide or the
user ones.  The latter are in you private &kde; configuration
folders, and they are named <guilabel>Custom Colors</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Recent Colors</guilabel>.
</para>

<para>
In &kcoloredit;, you may open all of these palettes, as well as
palettes in arbitrary files.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="file-open">
<title>Opening a file</title>
<para>
In the  <guilabel>Open File</guilabel> dialog,  you may choose  from a
list of installed palettes, or browse folders for files.
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="Edition">
<title>Editing</title>

<sect1 id="cursor">
<title>Cursor</title>

<para>The cursor is visible as a line in the palette view. It can be
moved by clicking on an area beside a color.</para>

<para>The cursor has the following functions:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
It points to the color after it. The color, if any, is described below
the palette view. You may edit its name there.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
It can be used to make a selection. A selection can be made by
clicking on an area beside a color, so to move the cursor there, and
by moving the mouse then with the left mouse button pressed.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>If the <guilabel>At cursor</guilabel> check-box near the
<guilabel>Add Color</guilabel> button is checked, a color from the
color chooser is put at the cursor.  The color is either inserted
or it overwrites another one, depending on whether the
<guilabel>Overwrite</guilabel> mode is chosen. The mode can be chosen
by checking the <guilabel>Overwrite</guilabel> check-box, that is next
to the <guilabel>At cursor</guilabel> one.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id = "selection">
<title>Selection</title>
<para>
A selection, that can be made as it was written in the previous
section, can be used with the copy, cut and paste operations.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id = "clipboard-format">
<title>Clipboard format</title>
<para>
&kcoloredit; uses the following format for clipboard data: for each
color three numbers for red, green and blue components, respectively,
and an optional color name, followed by a new line character if there
is another color. Therefore, if for example three numbers are in the
clipboard, they can be pasted by &kcoloredit; as a color.
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="color-selection">
<title>Selecting a color from an RGB space</title>

<para>
A color can be selected from an RGB space in &kcoloredit; in the
following ways:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
By editing the HSV or RGB components.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
By selecting a color from color gradient panels. In the left one, two
from HSV components can be selected, and in the right one, the third
one. The third component can be chosen by clicking on one of the
buttons labeled <guilabel>H:</guilabel>, <guilabel>S:</guilabel> and
<guilabel>V:</guilabel>. The one component panel display colors with
the other two components equal to these selected in the two components
panel.  The two components panel may display colors with the third
component fixed, or, if the <guilabel>Variable</guilabel> check-box is
set, with a value equal to the one selected in the one component
panel. In the <guilabel>Replace</guilabel> mode, the color selected in
panels replaces the output one instantly, and in the
<guilabel>Change:</guilabel> mode it modifies the output color after
each click, or a mouse move while a mouse button is
pressed. Therefore, in the latter mode the color selected in the
gradient panels may be different from the output color. To synchronize
the colors, the <guibutton>Synchronize</guibutton> button can be used.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</chapter>

<!-- Someone energetic might want to write a small chapter here -->
<!-- describing RGB vs HSV etc -->

<chapter id="drag-and-drop">
<title>Drag and drop</title>
<para>
The palette colors and the color selection output color can be dragged
with a mouse.
</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="menu-reference">
<title>Menu Reference</title>

<sect1 id="file-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Start a new palette in the current window.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New Window</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Open a new window</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>O</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Open a saved palette.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open Recent</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Reopen a palette that you have recently been
editing.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>S</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Save the currently open palette.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save As...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Save the currently open palette with a new
name.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>W</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Close</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Close</action> the current &kcoloredit; window</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Quit</action> &kcoloredit;.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="edit-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>X</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Cut</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Cut the currently selected color to the
clipboard.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Copy the currently selected color to the
clipboard.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut><keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo></shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Paste</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Paste a color from the clipboard.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="color-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Color</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Color</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>From Palette</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Find the color currently selected in the palette, in the
color selector on the left.</action></para><!-- eww... needs rewrite -->
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Color</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>From Screen</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Pick a color from anywhere on the screen, and find it
in the color selector on the left.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide/Show Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Toggle on and off the toolbar icons.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide/Show Statusbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Toggle on and off the status bar.</action></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Hide/Show Color Names</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>If the currently open palette has color name, <action>display
them alongside the colors</action>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Configure</action> the keyboard keys you use to access the 
different actions.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Configure</action> the items you want to put in the toolbar
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="help-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits-and-licenses">
<title>Credits and Licenses</title>

<para>&kcoloredit; copyright 2000 &Artur.Rataj;</para>

<para>Documentation copyright 2000 &Artur.Rataj;</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;
</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

&install.intro.documentation;

&install.compile.documentation;

</appendix>

</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

